# Exercise 6.2

CS-344, Prof. Keith Vander Linden, Calvin University

Answers by Nathan Meyer

## Problem Framing

Answers to exercises.

### Try It Yourself: Framing
1. We want the machine learned model to identify whether an email in Gmail is important or not.
2. Our ideal outcome is for users to focus their time on important emails and not unimportant ones.
3. Success Metrics
   - Our success metrics are the time spent reading and responding to emails.
   - Our key results for the success metrics are that the user spends less time on emails.
   - Our ML model is deemed a failure if it does not result in the user spending less time on emails compared to a heuristic.
4. Your Output
   - The output from our ML model will be e-mail messages labeled either important or unimportant.
   - The output is defined as a classification problem.
5. Using the Output
   - The output from the ML model will be made when the user receives new e-mail(s).
   - The outcome will be used for categorizing e-mails as Important or Unimportant in the UI (filters, labels, etc).
6. If we didn't use ML, we would use a heuristic which labels e-mails as Important if they are from addresses which the user has read, responded to, and/or labeled/saved in the past, and if the subject line contains a certain percentage (e.g. 80%) of keywords from prior e-mails the user has read, responded to, and/or labeled/saved.

### Try It Yourself: Formulating
7. Formulating/Casting ML Problem
   - Our problem is best framed as binary classification, which predicts whether an incoming email is one of two classifications: {important, not important}
   - The problem is already stated a binary classification
8. Data Design for the Model

| Subject          | Sender                     | Message Body                   | Replied? | Output (Label) |
|------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------|----------|----------------|
| Your Application | abcinc@xyz.com             | Hello Student, ...             | Yes      | Important      |
| CLEARANCE SALE   | annoyingdeptstore@spam.com | GET YOUR CHEAP CLOTHES NOW ... | No       | Not Important  |

9. For training, the data could be obtained from prior emails which have the first four columns, with "Replied?" being a stand-in for an email being labeled as important (is this possible to do in ML?). Otherwise, there could be some data that has emails hand-labeled by users as important, although that would be harder to obtain and not sustainable.\
For serving time, all of the relevant inputs (Subject, Sender, Body) will be available immediately.
10. The easily obtained inputs are Subject, Sender, and Message Body. These, I believe, can produce reasonable, initial outcomes of whether each message is Important or Not Important. Likewise, these inputs would be useful for implementing the heuristic.\
If computational time would be drastically affected by including Message Body, Subject and Sender might be suitable enough.